Question 5.5.6. Question 6. Exam Style Questions.
A function is defined by f(x) equals square root of x plus 1x squared
- 4 for negative 1 less than or equal to x less than or
equal to 5.\ x not equal to 2. This question is worth 6 marks.
Find the range of f. [4 marks]
Analyse the function behaviour. VA at x equals 2 (within
domain). x equals negative 2 is outside the domain.
f(-1) equals square root of 01-4 equals 0
As x maps to 2^-: numerator maps to square root of
3. denominator maps to 0^-. so f maps to -infinity.
As x maps to 2^ plus : numerator maps to square root of
3. denominator maps to 0^ plus . so f maps to plus infinity.
f(5) equals square root of 621 approximately 0.117. The
right piece decreases from plus infinity to 0.117.
Range: y less than or equal to 0 or y
greater than or equal to square root of 621
Find f inverse(2 over 5). [2 marks]
Find x such that f(x) equals 2 over 5.
Try x equals 3: f(3) equals square root
of 49-4 equals 2 over 5. It works!
f inverse(2 over 5) equals 3
IB exam tip: In IB exams. inverse values usually come
out as integers or simple fractions. Try small integers first!